= Net::Netconf

* http://github.com/Juniper-Workflow/net-netconf

== DESCRIPTION:

Device management using the NETCONF protocol as specified in {RFC4741}[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4741]
and {RFC6241}[http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6241].  

== FEATURES:

* Extensible protocol transport framework for SSH and non-SSH 
  * SSH transport using {Net::SSH}[http://net-ssh.rubyforge.org]
  * Telnet transport using Net::Telnet (Ruby Library)
  * Serial transport using {Ruby/SerialPort}[http://ruby-serialport.rubyforge.org/]
* NETCONF Standard RPCs
  * get-config, edit-config
  * lock, unlock
  * validate, discard-changes
* Flexible RPC mechanism
  * Netconf::RPC::Builder to metaprogram RPCs
  * Vendor extension framework for custom RPCs
* XML processing using {Nokogiri}[http://nokogiri.org]

== SUPPORT:

This software is not officially supported by Juniper Networks, but by a team dedicated to helping customers,
partners, and the development community.  To report bug-fixes, issues, susggestions, please contact 
{Jeremy Schulman}[mailto:jschulman@juniper.net].

== SYNOPSIS:
  require 'net/netconf'
  
  # create the options hash for the new NETCONF session.  If you are
  # using ssh-agent, then omit the :password
  
  login = { :target => 'vsrx', :username => "jeremy", :password => "jeremy1" }

  # provide a block and the session will open, execute, and close
  
  Netconf::SSH.new( login ){ |dev|  

    # perform the RPC command:
    # <rpc>
    #    <get-chassis-inventory/>
    # </rpc>
    
    inv = dev.rpc.get_chassis_inventory

    # The response is in Nokogiri XML format for easy processing ...
    
    puts "Chassis: " + inv.xpath('chassis/description').text
    puts "Chassis Serial-Number: " + inv.xpath('chassis/serial-number').text  
  }
 
Alternative explicity open, execute RPCs, and close

 require 'net/netconf' 

 dev = Netconf::SSH.new( login )
 dev.open

 inv = dev.rpc.get_chassis_inventory

 puts "Chassis: " + inv.xpath('chassis/description').text
 puts "Chassis Serial-Number: " + inv.xpath('chassis/serial-number').text  

 dev.close
  
== REQUIREMENTS:

* Ruby 1.8.7 or 1.9.3
* Nokogiri >= 1.5.5
* Net::SSH >= 2.5.2
* SerialPort >= 1.0.4 (_optional_)

== INSTALL:

The Netconf module is not yet posted on RubyForge, but will be in the near future.  

For now, download the netconf gem file from {github}[http://github.com/Juniper-Workflow/net-netconf], and:

* gem install netconf-<_version_>.gem

== USING NETCONF:

=== Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs):

Each Netconf session provides a readable instance variable - *rpc*. This is used to execute Remote Procedure Calls (RPCs). 
The @rpc will include the NETCONF standard RPCs, any vendor specific extension, as well as the ability 
to metaprogram new onces via method_missing.

Here are some examples to illustrate the metaprogamming:

Without any parameters, the RPC is created by swapping underscores (_) to hyphens (-):

 require 'net/netconf'
 
 dev.rpc.get_chassis_inventory
  
 # <rpc>
 #    <get-chassis-inventory/>
 # </rpc>
  
You can optionally provide RPC parameters as a hash:

 dev.rpc.get_interface_information( :interface_name => 'ge-0/0/0', :terse => true )
 
 # <rpc>
 #    <get-interface-information>
 #       <interface-name>ge-0/0/0</interface-name>
 #       <terse/>
 #   </get-interface-information>
 # </rpc>
 
You can additionally supply attributes that get assigned to the toplevel element.  In this case
You must enclose the parameters hash to disambiquate it from the attributes hash, or declare 
a variable for the parameters hash.

 dev.rpc.get_interface_information({ :interface_name => 'ge-0/0/0', :terse => true }, 
    { :format => 'text'} )
 
 # <rpc>
 #    <get-interface-information format='text'>
 #       <interface-name>ge-0/0/0</interface-name>
 #       <terse/>
 #   </get-interface-information>
 # </rpc>
 
If you want to provide attributes, but no parameters, then:

 dev.rpc.get_chassis_inventory( nil, :format => 'text' )
  
 # <rpc>
 #    <get-chassis-inventory format='text'/>
 # </rpc>
 
=== Retrieving Configuration:

To retrieve configuration from a device, use the *get-config* RPC.  Here is an example, but you can find
others in the *examples* directory:

 require 'net/netconf'


 login = { :target => 'vsrx', :username => "jeremy", :password => "jeremy1" }
  
 puts "Connecting to device: #{login[:target]}" 

 Netconf::SSH.new( login ){ |dev|
   puts "Connected."

   # ----------------------------------------------------------------------  
   # retrieve the full config.  Default source is 'running'
   # Alternatively you can pass the source name as a string parameter 
   # to #get_config
  
   puts "Retrieving full config, please wait ... "
   cfgall = dev.rpc.get_config                   
   puts "Showing 'system' hierarchy ..."
   puts cfgall.xpath('configuration/system')     # JUNOS toplevel config element is <configuration> 

   # ----------------------------------------------------------------------  
   # specifying a filter as a block to get_config
  
   cfgsvc1 = dev.rpc.get_config{ |x|
     x.configuration { x.system { x.services }}
   }
  
   puts "Retrieved services as BLOCK:"
   cfgsvc1.xpath('//services/*').each{|s| puts s.name }
  
   # ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   # specifying a filter as a parameter to get_config
  
   filter = Nokogiri::XML::Builder.new{ |x|
     x.configuration { x.system { x.services }}
   }
  
   cfgsvc2 = dev.rpc.get_config( filter )
   puts "Retrieved services as PARAM:"  
   cfgsvc2.xpath('//services/*').each{|s| puts s.name }
  
   cfgsvc3 = dev.rpc.get_config( filter )
   puts "Retrieved services as PARAM, re-used filter"  
   cfgsvc3.xpath('//services/*').each{|s| puts s.name }        
 }
 
*_NOTE_*: There is a JUNOS RPC, *get-configuration*, that provides Juniper specific extensions as well.

=== Changing Configuration:

To retrieve configuration from a device, use the *edit-config* RPC.  Here is an example, but you can find
others in the *examples* directory:

  require 'net/netconf'
  
  login = { :target => 'vsrx', :username => "jeremy", :password => "jeremy1" }
    
  new_host_name = "vsrx-abc"
  
  puts "Connecting to device: #{login[:target]}" 
  
  Netconf::SSH.new( login ){ |dev|
    puts "Connected!"
    
    target = 'candidate'
    
    # JUNOS toplevel element is 'configuration'
    
    location = Nokogiri::XML::Builder.new{ |x| x.configuration {
      x.system {
        x.location {
          x.building "Main Campus, A"
          x.floor 5
          x.rack 27
        }
      }
    }}
    
    begin
      
      rsp = dev.rpc.lock target
  
      # --------------------------------------------------------------------    
      # configuration as BLOCK
      
      rsp = dev.rpc.edit_config{ |x| x.configuration {
        x.system {
          x.send(:'host-name', new_host_name )
        }
      }}
      
      # --------------------------------------------------------------------
      # configuration as PARAM
      
      rsp = dev.rpc.edit_config( location )
      
      rsp = dev.rpc.validate target
      rpc = dev.rpc.commit
      rpc = dev.rpc.unlock target
      
    rescue Netconf::LockError => e
      puts "Lock error"
    rescue Netconf::EditError => e
      puts "Edit error"          
    rescue Netconf::ValidateError => e
      puts "Validate error"
    rescue Netconf::CommitError => e
      puts "Commit error"
    rescue Netconf::RpcError => e
      puts "General RPC error"
    else
      puts "Configuration Committed."
    end  
  }

*_NOTE_*: There is a JUNOS RPC, *load-configuration*, that provides Juniper specific extensions as well.

== LICENSE:

(BSD 2)

Copyright (c) 2013, Juniper Networks

All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met: 

(1) Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this 
list of conditions and the following disclaimer. 

(2) Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation
and/or other materials provided with the distribution. 

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR
ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND
ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

The views and conclusions contained in the software and documentation are those
of the authors and should not be interpreted as representing official policies, 
either expressed or implied, of Juniper Networks.

== AUTHORS AND CONTRIBUTORS:
* {Jeremy Schulman}[www.linkedin.com/in/jeremyschulman], Juniper Networks
* Ankit Jain, Juniper Networks

